Theresa May was apparently awarded applause by EU leaders at a banquet last night. Excellent. But why would they clap her? Were they relieved at her emolient tone? Was it for encouragement in advance of the next round of Brexit beatings? Or perhaps for sympathy at her domestic plight? It was significant that it was Germany's Angela Merkel who was leading the clapping, whose plight is as dire as May's.

What the Prime Minister appears to have achieved, is to make EU leaders realise that Brexit is going to happen, and that they all have an interest in it being "orderly". For after a year of difficult negotiations and slap downs by Michael Barnier, leaders have been conculuded that the path of reason might be a better way of progressing. 

Good news indeed. But before the real trade talks can begin, a UK/EU transition deal must be negotiated, and fast. This deal must cover the commercial relationship with the EU after 2019, pending a permament deal which cannot be legally reached before then. Here lies Theresa May's predicament. A transition deal can only be unidirectional. Britain must continue to abide by EU trade regulations, treaties and court jurisdictions, but have no role in their adjustment. Unless the UK is to leave without a deal, it means remaining in the customs union for the duration.

And now a stream train hurtles full speed towards a divided parlimentary Conservative party. The customs union option, even as a transitional measure, is so loathed by Brexit fundamentalists. For them it might tie Britain's hands in 3rd party talks or worse still - it might mean a way back to the single market, or to a Norway or Swiss arrangement.

Since the overwhelming weight of evidence suggests that the majority of the public, business and political communities would be quite happy with this outcome, this should pose no problem for May. She would be honouring the referendum result, whilst leaving the implementation of it up to parliment.

This is why she must take comfort, not dismay, in this weeks' Commons defeat. Whatever anyone says, it was code for soft Brexit. Britain needs a customs union and it needs a version of the single market. This is bound to mean concessions on treaties, regulation and court jurisdiction, for the only reason that it makes sense.

It is not May's parlimentary enemies this week who should trouble her. It is her fundamentalists, and she must sooner or later confront and isolate them. She knows she must leave the EU sensibly, not stupidly and chaotically. For that to happen she must make friends, not just of her dining companions in Brussels, but of the soft-Brexit Tory rebels who deserted her in the commons. She is going to need them, badly.