The Russians are coming they cry. The terrorists are at the door. Feel afraid, feel very afraid. Give us the money! 

Each year as the budget looms, the defence lobby screams blue murder to make its case for more cash. The army fears it will lose thousands of soldiers, while the navy and Royal Air Force fear the merger of the paratroop and marine brigade and the loss of more frigates.

The truth is that in proportion to the size of its population, Britain's defence budget is already one of the largest in the world. It is the largest in the EU, and the second largest in Nato. This is unrrelated to threat, and entirely related to history. This is why each year, no-one asks what the nation needs, only whether it can "do with" less than the year before.

The army has only itself to blame. When labour came to power in 1997, and then the coalition government in 2010, there was a chance to listen to collective defence wisdom and accept that Britain discontinue its aircraft carriers and Trident nuclear deterrent. They would eat money and serve no reasonable defence purpose, particularly in the modern age of unmanned power projection. The Navy and the RAF lobbied furiously and a sceptical army said nothing. Downing Street capitulated to a massive distortion in equipment defence spending, largely at the army's expense.

Last year, Britain launched its second aircraft carrier bringing their cost close to £7 billion, wildly over budget. Trident was extended. The lunacy of Trident was further illustrated by the proposal of the Treasury to remove it from the budget altogether. It would then sit alongside HS2, overseas aid and Olympics legacy under the heading "vanity project".

Britain's three defence services should long ago have merged into one, so that defence could be viewed in the round, not as a derivative of mutual lobbying. Defence should be seen from the threat upwards, not history downwards. Such is the anarchy that British taxes are today financing the country's "defence" in no fewer than 80 miltary outposts around the world, largely in the name of American interventionism.

The row over defence spending and that it should consume 2% of the nation's wealth has nothing to do with defence, but with an arbitrary target unrrelated to threat. Labour's spokesman Nia Griffith, who should be challenging this, merely attacks the government for damaging "Britain's international credibility". What is she talking about? Germany does not require nuclear weapons or drone squadrons for its credibility.

The decay in the defence debate is entirely apparent through the abstrsct language in which it is conducted. Defence is now a mis-match of right-wing sound bites, international credibility, influence, greatness and waving the flag.