It was the best of decisions, it was the worst of decisions. It was the season of light, it was the season of darkness - the hope of spring, the winter of despair. Brexit is Britain's French revolution and nobody has the slightest idea about how it will turn out.

London's most recent inward investor, the former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg has no such doubt. Yesterday he spoke for liberals when he said that Brexit was "the stupidest thing any country has ever done" at least "until Americ Trumped it". He made no mention of the millions of people who voted for both. But then liberals are rather down on democracy these days. It has not been giving them the answers they want.

What is crashingly obvious, is that Britain will be leaving the EU in a year and a half. It will be leaving no matter how much abuse remainers hurl at leavers. It will be leaving no matter how much the titans of industry and snowflakes of academia wail and gnash their teeth. It could be very bad, or it may not be as bad as many fear. But it is happening none the less.

Just as leavers are in cloud cuckoo land over transitions, quotas and third party deals, remainers keep virtue-signalling so long as one day they can to say "I told you so". Leavers at least have a strategy, which is to let the clock run until Britain falls off the cliff edge. Remainers have no strategy at all, except to cry woe. There seems to be no sign of any concerted effort behind any of the soft Brexit options.

The British constitution has no problem with a soft Brexit. The referendum result simply said "leave the EU". It did not specify whether it should be hard or soft, only that we should leave the formal treaty framework. How we leave was not on the ballot. By default, this was delegated to parliment which can thus choose how to interpret and implement Brexit. Parliment must decide on how to trade with Europe whilst not remaining in Europe. If the electorate does not like what parliment decides, tough. It must await the next election.

Every single opinion poll since the referendum, every tally of MPs, every industrial lobby and economic pressure group is clear. A majority favours keeping free trade with Europe and mostly open borders.