The Home Office should ban the Office of National Statistics from issuing "police-recorded crime figures". These statistics represent a concerted campaign by police forces across England and Wales to resist austerity cuts, boost budgets and bias workloads. Headlines indicate knife crime "highest for six years", "alarming increase in violent crime" and "crime surges". Says who exactly?

According to the figures, gun crime is "up by 27%" in one year, knife crime 26% and robberies 25%. Stalking/harassment is up by an amazing 35%, while South Yorkshire violence is up by 49%. These unbelievable numbers do not record crime at all, they reflect reporting activity in police stations. This is governed by political policies, media-driven priorities, staff accessibilty and numbers.

The only reliable crime indicator is the separate ONS crime survey for England and Wales, which measures public experience of crime in the community. This is nothing to do with the police, and it shows crime continuing to fall, currently at 9% annually, and falls or "unchanged" in almost all categories. The finding is always published at the same time as the police figures and gets no headlines. The police and their ONS allies know this well.

The head of the ONS, John Flatley, yesterday cautioned that the police figures "cannot provide a measure of all crime" and "improvements made by police forces in recording crime are still a factor". Improvment is a euphemism for bias. Whilst the crime survey of England and Wales does not consider infrequently experienced crimes, such as knife killings, there is no justification for the ONS publishing figures likely to reflect police distortion and abuse.

Britain's police forces are now so centralised it is perhaps inevitable that they would use statistics for "shroud waving". Forces are fighting to retain employees in a climate of austerity. A political fixation on "historical" and other sex crimes is leading forces to spend a third of their resources investigating them.