Each time a US gunman goes beserk, the British media reacts with frenzied fury at the money the gun lobby devotes to its lethal interests. Wide scale lobbying is an occupational disease that eats away at American politics. In the US it can have murderous consequences. Still, on matters of principle, Britons would do well to watch their own hypocracy.

The sums spent by property companies lobbying Westminster city coucil's planning committee may be dwarfed by those spent across the Atlantic. But the hospitality showered on the committee's chairman, Robert Davis, for 16 years is breathtaking. Five hundred freebies, including 10 foreign trips, in just three years. At least 150 of these were from a who's who list of property industry figures. Even Harvey Weinstein is on the list. Entertaining Davis was clearly a Westminster cottage industry. He can barely had time to down one glass of champagne before raising another.

London's Evening Standard's Jim Armitage, inside the committee as a local resident objecting to a planning application, watched while planning approvals were mechanically ticked off. He noted that not a single objection was upheld. Members "looked at the ceiling, buffed their nails and scratched their noses" as each was nodded through.

Westminster council asserted this week that all hospitality was received during "meetings" and the suggestion that councillors "could be bought by the property lobby was demonstrably untrue". The meetings apparently took place at Wimbledon, at a performance of the musical Hamilton and in the south of France. There is nothing wrong with this if gifts and hospitality is fully declared. But this assumes that what is declared cannot be considered, under the 2010 Bribery Act, a "fanancial or other advantage" offered or accepted to secure "improper performance". Transparency is not enough.

One particularly extraordinary case of Davis's was the late Irvine Sellar's 72 storey "Paddington Pole". This required demolition of an Edwardian baroque sorting office and the erection of a gigantic tower, within the boundary of a conservation area and towering over Brunel's Paddington Station. Proposed in 2016 it breached every conceivable principle of good planning, but Sellar entertained Davis and apparently secured his approval for the pole Davis would later describe as a "potential masterpiece" .