Britain's student loan scheme must be the worst public-sector project in all of history. It is responsible for £100bn of graduate debt, currently projected to jump to £330bn by 2044, three quarters of which will never be repaid. The rest is dumped on the tax payer. This madness must stop. The current system of student loans, transformed by Tony Blair's introduction of tuition fees in 1998, then privatised and monstrously increased by David Cameron in 2012 is unfair, excessive and costly. It is the unnacceptable face of privatisation. It has turned graduates into cash cows for loan collectors and turned universities into fat-cat peddlers of cheap courses for inflated fees, guaranteed by the Treasury.

So far, so clear. Today's speech by Theresa May criticising the "pricing" of every course at £9000 is well-founded. She wants variegated courses, better integrated with vocation training, and variegated fees. This is fair and sensible, as far as it goes. Labour wants everything as now, but with no fees or grants for anyone. This would be so expensive it would force the Treasury to drastically curb numbers, thus restrict access. Both paths lead in the same direction, to ever greater Whitehall control of higher eduction. It would result in centralised planning of courses and endless rows over prices. Universities would become the same as schools, mere agencies of central government.

There is no sensible way Whitehall should be trying to discriminate between students and between courses. Like its current attempts to measure teaching quality and quantify research, it denies academic autonomy - and is chaotic. The suggestion that course "value" should be linked to future earnings is absurd and obscene. 

Justine Greening, the former education secretary,  has added her name to those calling for one fair way to finance higher education, such as it was before the 1990s. Course fees should be abolished and universities receive direct grants, financed by a graduate tax coding. Economists are increasingly sceptical about the value of universities to the national economy. 